**2021-07-11 update: my algorithm won the competition with 75 points! I have extended the code to simulate average score and would have won ~34.3% of the time over 11,000 trials.**

**Tweaking root phi weighting and u of poisson distribution is a straightforward means to optimise (or overfit) for the future. Goal forecasts are too tail heavy.**

<h1>Euro 2020 Stochastic Poisson Distribution Results Generator (+ Oddschecker web scraping)</h1>

As a friendly competition we predict Euro and World Cup results on a biennial basis.

I haven't been following football much since working at my fund so decided to build a simple model to generate my results in Python.

Disclaimer: this was built in a few hours as a bit of fun and used no historic competition data, no attacking/defending data, no ML model training, etc. See notes below for the arbitrary assumptions I chose to incorporate.


<h3>Notes</h3>

* Odds derived from **median** odds offered on [Oddschecker](https://www.oddschecker.com/football/euro-2020/winner) to win the entire tournament (scraped with Requests and custom header)

* Match results generated by:

    * Computing ratio of odds with `p1/(p1+p2)` where p1 and p2 are the probabilities of winning the tournament

        * **However**, to add volatility back to our single match results vs our less stochastic probabilities of winning the whole tournament we adjust `p1` and `p2` down using roots. I chose to use the **golden ratio root** for good fun ;)

    * A mean number of goals per team is allocated using this ratio. This is scaled from **2.88** which is our assumption for the total mean number of goals per game sourced from [English League Games from 1888-2016](http://rstudio-pubs-static.s3.amazonaws.com/337949_a6b294c25d75426eaf0b6bbee8b55175.html)

    * In the case of a draw in a knockout round, we simply generate a random float and compare to our ratio to dictate the winner

* Full UEFA Euro 2020 knockout round rules can be found [here](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/UEFA_Euro_2020_knockout_phase). The match system is quite complex

* Full generated results are saved to an Excel for ease of reference